Abstract:
The large reconstruction stencil has been the major bottleneck problem in developing high 
order finite volume schemes on unstructured grids. This paper presents a compact 
reconstruction procedure for arbitrarily high order finite volume method on unstructured grids
to overcome this shortcoming. In this procedure, a set of constitutive relations are constructed 
by requiring the reconstruction polynomial and its derivatives on the control volume of 
interest to conserve their averages on face-neighboring cells. These relations result in an 
over-determined linear equation system, which, in the sense of least-squares, can be reduced 
to a block-tridiagonal system in the one-dimensional case. The one-dimensional formulations 
of the reconstruction are discussed in detail and a Fourier analysis is presented to study the 
dispersion/dissipation and stability properties. The WBAP limiter based on the secondary 
reconstruction is used to suppress the non-physical oscillations near discontinuities while 
achieve high order accuracy in smooth regions of the solution. Numerical results demonstrate
the method’s high order accuracy, robustness and shock capturing capability.
Keywords: Compact reconstruction, High order, Finite volume method, Shock capturing.
1 Introduction
High order numerical methods on unstructured grids are one of the active research areas in 
computational fluid dynamics (CFD). Such methods are believed to have the advantages of 
high order accuracy, low dissipation/dispersion, and capability of handling both complex 
physics and geometries. Therefore, in applications such as direct numerical simulation (DNS) 
and large eddy simulation (LES) of turbulent flows and computational aeroacoustics (CAA), 
high order methods have significant potential to achieve higher efficiency in terms of number 
of elements required to accurately resolve important flow features than typical second order 
schemes [1]. High order methods on unstructured grids are widely considered as the next 
major breakthrough in CFD. Over the last two decades, various high order methods have been 
developed, such as the high order k-exact [2-5]/ WENO [6-9] finite volume (FV) schemes, 
discontinuous Galerkin (DG) method [10-14], PNPM procedure [15-17], Residual Distribution 
(RD) method [18-21], spectral volume (SV) [22-25]/ spectral difference (SD) [26-28] 
methods and correction procedure via reconstruction (CPR) method [29, 30].
The motivation of the present paper is to design a FV scheme that overcomes some 
important drawbacks associated with the high order FV schemes. The high order FV schemes 
are briefly reviewed before presenting the basic ideas of the present method. The key 
ingredient of the FV methods to achieve high order accuracy is the high order representation 
of physical data inside the cell. One of the pioneering works in this area is the FV scheme 
based on the k-exact reconstruction, which was first proposed by Barth and Fredrichson [2] on 
2D grids and later generalized to 3D grids by Delanaye and Liu [3]. Further development of 
this scheme was made by Ollivier-Gooch [4, 5] and others. The ENO and WENO schemes
were firstly developed on structured grids [31-39]. The ENO scheme on unstructured grids 
was developed by Abgrall [40] and the WENO scheme on unstructured grids was developed 
by Friedrich [6]. These schemes were further studied by Dumbser [7, 8] and Shu [9] to 
improve their efficiency and accuracy. Li and Ren [41] proposed an improved WENO scheme 
on unstructured grids using the secondary reconstruction (SR). The basic idea of the SR is to 
use the continuations of the k-exact reconstructions on neighboring cells as the additional 
candidate reconstructions for the current cell. The polynomials of the SRs are derived 
analytically and are very simple, which makes the improved WENO scheme being much 
more efficient than the traditional WENO schemes.
The number of cells in the stencil of a high order FV scheme is usually large because the 
reconstruction in FV methods uses only the cell averages on the corresponding stencil. 
Furthermore, the reconstruction procedure for the high order FV schemes could be singular 
especially on unstructured grids. To overcome this problem, the reconstruction is sometimes 
performed in the least-squares sense, for which even larger stencil is needed. The large stencil 
results in a series of problems [21, 42]. The first one is cache missing due to the data in the 
stencil being far away in memory. The second one is that large amount of data need to be 
transferred at the interface of two partitions in parallel computing, which leads to the 
deterioration of the parallel efficiency. The third one is that on a larger stencil, more memory 
is needed to store the coefficients associated with the cells in the stencil. Therefore, very large 
stencil has been one of the most serious problems for the high order FV schemes. In fact, one 
of the important motivations to develop the high order schemes with internal degree of 
freedom (DOF) such as the DG and SV/SD schemes is to reduce the size of the stencil so that 
the stencil is compact and independent of the order of accuracy.
This paper presents a compact least-squares (CLS) reconstruction procedure for high order 
FV method. The key novelty of this procedure is that it can achieve arbitrarily high order 
accuracy using a compact stencil consisting of only the face-neighboring cells. To explain the 
basic idea of this reconstruction, we note that the polynomial of a traditional reconstruction 
procedure is determined by conserving the cell averages of the solution on the current cell as 
well as on the neighboring cells belonging to the stencil of the reconstruction for sufficiently 
smooth solution. Since the number of unknowns in the reconstruction polynomial increases 
very fast with the degree of the polynomial, a very large stencil is required for high order 
polynomial reconstruction. To cure this shortcoming and maintain the compact stencil for 
arbitrarily high order reconstruction, the present reconstruction procedure requires not only 
the dependent variables but also its various orders of derivatives to conserve their means on